we've been talking about the idea of
reopening and so many small businesses
that I think ideally would like to do it
but there is this question of demand and
whether it's really going to happen and
what and what happens and so before we
can get into the the loan program and
everything else that's happening right
now I'm curious what you think and what
you're hearing is happening from your
constituents well there's no question
that all businesses but particularly
small businesses are having a real
challenge many are not able to open
they're having difficulty on so many
different fronts the Paycheck protection
program helps for eight weeks but what
happens after eight weeks so clearly we
are looking at how we can help those
that are in greatest need be able to
stay viable
small businesses or the growth engine of
America that's where job creation takes
place that's where innovation takes
place and we're gonna have to give a
special attention we already have to
help our small businesses do you think
there's gonna be a big second round of
stimulus you talk to a lot of these
small business owners and they say look
maybe we can get through these eight
weeks maybe we can get through a little
bit longer but at some point we're gonna
need help if we're gonna try to stay
open because in some of the cases social
distancing requirements are gonna
require them to only allow a certain
number of people in then on the other
side you have this demand issue which is
there gonna be some people who just
don't go out and spend money the way
they used to Oh clearly the first
efforts on one stimulus was to try to
get money out as quickly as possible and
I think we were successful in doing that
with the IRS checks and with the PPP
program with the unemployment insurance
we did get money out the second round
this next round I think we're gonna try
to be much more targeted but
particularly for small businesses that
those who have had significant revenue
losses the smaller the small businesses
to try to target the program to the
traditionally underserved communities
that needs to be our focus and I do
think there's bipartisan support from
Elle but we want to see it targeted you
know one of these you hear from small
businesses is that the goal posts
throughout this process have changed
early on when the program was
developed and first announced the
administration Congress said we're just
trying to throw money at the problem
your small business ask for the money go
get it we want you to have access to the
money a week later we heard of small
businesses but small businesses that
might have had some money in the bank
get named and shamed and all of a sudden
there was a question mark about should
you give the money back how are they
going to look at this later what's gonna
happen in some cases there were clearly
egregious examples of people getting
access to the money but there are other
smaller business and I've talked to them
who who are completely off the radar who
you wouldn't necessarily know who got
the money who think they actually need
it but they're a little anxious now
about even using it well you're correct
in that we wanted to get the money out
quickly so we made it easy for the banks
to do the underwriting was 100%
guaranteed by the federal government but
we did put a requirement on the small
businesses to make a self-certification
of need so there was a requirement that
you've been adversely impacted by kovat
19 and you needed some help
so if you've falsified that
certification that's not right and I
think that's what secretary venusian is
talking about particularly with the
larger of the small businesses so there
was responsibility on behalf of the
borrower but we wanted the money to get
out quickly right do you blame the banks
at all in terms of how this money got
out Oh certainly and initially the the
banks were showing favoritism towards
the their priority customers so the
larger of the small businesses were able
to get loans whereas the underserved
communities particularly those that
under Bank we're not able to get the
loans in a prompt manner now we did
correct that on the second tranche of
funds to allocate the certain amount of
funds to the smaller financial
institutions and those that are
mission-driven
but at least initially yes the banks
showed little willingness to try to
reach out to the small businesses in
greatest need and then my final question
for you is and we're gonna talk to god
dr. scott kelly in just a moment but
with 2,000 deaths a day still taking
place in hospitalizations especially if
you take New York in the
tristate area-- out of the picture
continuing to go up this not just cases
as a result of more testing but actual
hospitalizations going up is this a new
normal that you imagine the u.s. is
going to have to live with are the steps
that we've taken thus far not working in
terms of social distancing and in terms
of the state home orders I think we have
to follow of public health experts
recommendations we do believe that there
will be a significant slowing down of
the the serious cases we are identifying
more people because we're doing more
tests we hope that the spreading is
slowing down considerably and we hope we
can get it under control but clearly
until we have effective therapeutics and
we have a vaccine there's going to be a
lot of anxiousness out in the public
about this disease still being here and
still very deadly and senator before I
go we had Robert Crandall on earlier
talking about the airline industry he's
of course a big former airline industry
CEO and he said Airlines should be
regulated like utilities he said at this
point given that we've decided that we
are ensuring these companies as as a
country we need to rethink how these
companies are funded and what the role
the US government is in them how do you
feel about that I think in the United
States were fortunate that we do have a
significant number of Airlines the
competition is good we can get a
reasonably priced tickets usually I like
the idea that they're privately held I
do think they have to work under a
government regulation as they do today
but I prefer them to remain pretty much
private entities
you